we start this video directly quoting the
journalist Simon Marx to my knowledge in
the year 2020 he's no longer in Cambodia
he's now living in Ethiopia covering the
elections there or perhaps I might say
he's covering the lack of elections
their quote in 2009 Nicholas Kristof
wrote in The New York Times about a girl
named long crawl who had finally summon
the strength to tell her stunning story
of sexual slavery he reported that a
woman had kidnapped crow and sold her to
a brothel where she was beaten tortured
with electric wires forced to endure two
crude abortions and had an eye gouged
out with a piece of metal by an angry
pimp Pro Christophe said was rescued by
mom and became part of her valiant group
of former trafficking victims fighting
for a world free of sexual slavery Pro
also told her disturbing story on Oprah
and appeared on PBS so on and so forth
equally hard to believe is the fact that
pros family neighbors and medical
records all tell a different story dr.
Paul Cohen said that he performed
surgery on Pro when she was just 13
after her parents brought in hospital
with a non malignant tumor covering her
right eye photographs in her medical
records clearly show the young girl's
eye before and after the surgery so how
did she come to be one of some alley
moms girls T Sarah bong director of
Cambodia's Takeo eye hospital back then
says his staff contacted a fib to see if
they could admit Pro to one of their
vocational training programs another of
moms biggest stars was Mia act who as a
teenager gave me chilling performance on
French television in 1998 describing how
she had been sold to a brothel and held
against her will as a sex slave late
last year
Mia rat finally confessed that her story
was fabricated and carefully rehearsed
for cameras under a man's instruction
and only after she was chosen from group
of girls had been put through an
audition now in her early 30s and living
a modest life on the outskirts of Phnom
Penh
rat says she reluctantly allowed herself
to be depicted as a child prostitute
Somali said that if we wanted to help
other women I had to do the interview
very well as well as being accused of
fabricating her own story Somali mom has
been accused of coaching victims in a
facade scare to fabricate their stories
to attract attention and ultimately more
funding I then force a girl to say
anything my story it is enough to cover
all of the story one girl at the center
of the controversy is long pro she told
international media she was sold into
prostitution and that she lost her eye
when a pimp gouged it out to find out
for ourselves how long Pro lost her eye
we traveled to her home village about
five hours southeast of Phnom Penh local
villagers remember her will she had a
bad eye and she didn't like to go
outside of her house he gradually grew
bigger and bigger and then she never
left the house her father didn't know
where to take her for treatment that's
why the Charles stayed in a village for
a long time
down the dirt-track long pros parents
are somewhat bemused by the interest in
their daughter but a father confirms she
had a problem with her eye some lonely
young man then we didn't know much about
the disease because it was so unusual I
don't know why her I went like that she
was just a child and we were busy making
our living but her eye gradually grew
bigger and bigger well we were very poor
at the time and then the NGO helped us
looked after us with the operation and
food also back in pnom pain we meet a
former apposite employee she says she
arranged with the doctors at the
hospital where long pro had her tumor
removed to bring her to an apposite
shelter she doesn't want to be
identified for fear of reprisal momentum
drum floor now iam she was not a victim
of the bra tells her I was caused by a
disease I know this because the hospital
told me face to face this woman says she
worked for a person for 14 years until
she was laid off when the Somali mam
foundation closed there wasn't any story
like long cross so they create the
reality is it didn't happen I mean it
had a very negative impact it affected
the child's reputation and a reputation
of the child's family it was done for
personal benefit with no regard for
another human being if she was a
traumatized person just a Cambodian
person who was just running a
not-so-good organization that'd be one
thing but she was an internationally
acclaimed human rights activist who was
getting millions of dollars to help
women assets budget was more than a
million dollars a year with around
$700,000 in funding plus Somali moms a
hundred and twenty five thousand dollar
salary coming from the Somali man found
I saw Tommy at Manomet where the
question is who was in charge of the
food
the person was Somalis mother so if a
mother was in charge of cooking when was
the foot of poor quality and not enough
she's also asking questions about where
the rest of our subs budget went hiking
I know Somali owns 10,000 square meters
of land in summary she bought a lot of
land in Pilon province and she bought a
lot of properties in Phnom Penh and the
staff members surrounding her all her
relatives and every one of them now
owned houses the question is where did
those people make their money I don't
know if you look at their salaries they
probably couldn't afford that this is
not the first time after supplies been
suspected of misappropriation in the
mid-2000s a Spanish donor organization
Ana's VAD had growing concerns about the
NGOs accounting practices were not
enough invoices to account to the
amounts that they were receiving from
Ana spot and secondly some of the
invoices were kind of like you know
repeat it you know they were like two
copies of the same invoices I mean in
the end it really turned out to be that
it has been some sort of fortunate
because we could also see that when we
visited the projects you could not
really see the impact now you may wonder
what sort of person tells such terrible
lies
what sort of person shamelessly profits
from lying in this way in politics more
often than not when you find people in
positions of power who have committed
atrocities or carried on such immoral
acts they are people who are already
accustomed to making excuses for others
in positions of authority who have
indulged in similar transgressions of
the moral code or they may be people who
convinced themselves that they're living
in a society where everyone around them
is engaged in much the same sort of in
morale
she was a quotation from her ex-husband
Somali mom's ex-husband
Pierre Lacroix why are you speaking out
now
did you be where asked quote I kept
silent so far because I really do not
think this debate over Somalis lies is
of interest when you work in this world
you know fabricated stories are used by
everyone to get fun
there's the mentality everyone else is
getting rich telling these guys let's so
why not me too why not us also why
shouldn't we jump on yeah well if you
don't have an answer to that question
maybe you should not be working in the
nonprofit and charity sector in Cambodia
if you should be working in that sector
anywhere on planet earth what a
despicable attitude but here we see how
powerful that tendency to
self-justification really can be and you
know what I lived in Cambodia I worked
in the nonprofit sector I know I you
know if I'd wanted to make those excuses
of myself you know any conceivable sin
you might want to justify you can look
around and if you're looking carefully
enough you can say well it seems like
everyone else is doing it no there are
people who are standing up and saying
not me and you could be one of those or
you can be like Pierre here and make
excuses for it
get your own hands dirty and fill up
your own bank account the same time too
anyway we continue as he tries to now
present himself as the hero quote but I
received death threats from Somali and
her entourage telling me not to speak I
do it for my children for the truth to
be restored and to denounce the logic of
a failing system praising quote
development close quote
wow you really turned that one around
you should give press straight corsets
up to answer tough questions to the
press Donald Trump never handles a
barbed question this well like yes well
he doesn't think these lies are of any
interest and everyone else is doing it
anyway but really he's the victim
because he's received death threats and
what he's doing now is quite heroic yes
hmm
applause quote moreover I believe
Newsweek and maryclaire are just arguing
about
minor problem I do not understand why
journalists are sticking to the fact
that Somali lied about her origins who
cares at sex slavery and still with me
is actress and after this Susan Sarandon
and a woman at the forefront of the
battle against sex slavery and human
trafficking Somali so I know that you
had a really difficult childhood Somali
can you walk us through that what we
need to know is as the director of one
of the most well known NGOs fighting
against sexual trafficking how how
honestly fairly and legally did some
Holly Act when you are an icon and an
NGO director people expect you to act
with the utmost probity from what was
published in Spain last year there were
mismanagement and sexual abuse
allegations than a South shelter in 2006
to me this would be the real issue to
investigate yes it's always easy to find
real issues to investigate what you're
trying to say is that your own a
personal fortune that of your ex-wife
and that of your daughter I believe
that's really of no interest at all